---
title: "Why"
bg: darknavy
color: white
fa-icon: question
---

## Why do we need Semantic Testing?

If you have been a software developer long enough or have worked at multiple organization you have probably heard tests referred to as *unit test, sanity test, acceptance test, performance test, functional test, integration test, system test, regression test, stress test, security test, component test, black-box test, gray-box test, white-box test, validation test, end-to-end test, verification test, smoke test, scenario test, contract test, intake test, alpha test, beta test, destructive test, accessibility test, concurrent test, usability test, etc.*

What the heck is a sanity test? Are not all tests sanity tests? What is the difference between a functional test and an integration test? Or a system test and end-to-end test? There does not seem to be consensus as what to call tests between teams let alone organizations. Even worse, what constitutes a functional test at one organization is referred to as sanity test in another. We do not have shared lexicon when we communicate so how can we define what constitutes an effective test or communicate the value of testing our software?

Language affects the way we think and the decisions we make. Do we really need 27 different ways to refer to our tests? Can we make software testing easy to understand and define a consistent approach to applying software testing best practices and principles? With Semantic Testing we believe we can!
